---
layout: default
title: Introduction
---

# Introduction

When planning a retirement, you have an important decision to make: how much
money will you withdraw from your investments each year? Most people wish to
withdraw as much as they can to maximize their quality of life, but not so much
that they run out of money.

It's impossible to know with certainty how much we can safely withdraw each
year, because we can't know how the market will perform during your retirement,
nor how long we will live. But there are ways to make an informed decision.

## Finding a Safe Withdrawal Rate

In the early 90's, a financial advisor named William Bengen came up with a novel
idea to determine a safe withdrawal rate: simulating retirements using
historical data. He took a retirement plan and calculated how it would have
performed if an individual had started their retirement in 1926. After some
number of years (he considered up to 50 years in his study), he determined if
there was any money left in the portfolio. Then, he ran the simulation again,
starting in the year 1927, and continued all the way through the present day.

After running all of the simulations, he determined that retirement plans
survived about 95% of the time with a 4% initial withdrawal rate. After the
first year, you adjust the withdrawal amount for inflation to ensure that your
purchasing power remains about the same.

A few years after Bengen's study, a group of professors reconfirmed his results
in a paper called The Trinity Study. This idea is now known as The 4% Rule, and
it remains a foundational idea in retirement planning even today.

This method of determing a safe withdrawal strategy is powerful if you believe
that the market during your retirement will perform no worse than the worst
market in the available data set.

## Other Withdrawal Strategies

In the time since the 4% Rule was originally conceived, new withdrawal
strategies have been created that offer pros and cons compared to The 4% Rule.

What other strategies exist, and which one is most appropriate for you? You can
use FI Calc to find these answers.

## Using FI Calc

This calculator allows you to run your retirement simulations using historical
data, just like Bengen. You can recreate his original results, or tweak the
inputs to discover new ones. Run retirements that are shorter or longer, or that
withdraw less or more, and see how these changes impact success rates.

In addition to the withdrawal strategy used in The 4% Rule, FI Calc includes
others that you can use, too, and those strategies are just as configurable. You
can export your results as a CSV file and continue your calculations in your
spreadsheet app of choice.

FI Calc cannot guarantee that any retirement plan will succeed or not. As stated
before, nothing can provide you with that guarantee. But FI Calc _can_ help you
make more informed decisions around retiring by allowing you to explore
situations in which a particular retirement plan does well or poorly in.

## What Now?

You're ready to jump in and start running simulations, or you can continue
reading these Guides to learn more about this calculator.

<div class="page_ctas">
  <a href="https://calculator.ficalc.app" class="button page_ctaBtn">
    Launch Calculator
  </a>
</div>

## What to Read Next

<!-- - [Getting Started](/introduction/getting-started/) - How to get started with
  using FI Calc.
 -->

- [Backtesting](/introduction/backtesting/) - FI Calc is a calculator that works
  by using a strategy called "backtesting." Learn all about backtesting here.

<div class="spacer"></div>

<script async src="https://pagead2.googlesyndication.com/pagead/js/adsbygoogle.js"></script>
<!-- Bottom of Introduction -->

<ins class="adsbygoogle"
     style="display:block"
     data-ad-client="ca-pub-2963704961857988"
     data-ad-slot="6231102987"
     data-ad-format="auto"
     data-full-width-responsive="true"></ins>

<script>
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
</script>
