---
layout: default
title: Terms of Service
meta: true
---

# Terms of Service

> Last updated: June 24th, 2023.

By using our service ("Service"), you are agreeing to these terms.

## Use of our Service

You must be 13 years or older to use our Service.

Using our Service is at your sole risk. Do not misuse the Service.

Our Service does not provide financial advice and are for educational purposes
only.

## Disclaimer of Warranties

Our Service is provided “as is” and “as available,” without warranty of any
kind. Without limiting this, we expressly disclaim all warranties, whether
express, implied or statutory, regarding the Service including without
limitation any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose,
title, security, accuracy and non-infringement.

FI Calc does not warrant that the Services will meet your requirements; that the
Service will be uninterrupted, timely, secure, or error-free; that the
information provided through the Service is accurate, reliable or correct; that
any defects or errors will be corrected; that the Service will be available at
any particular time or location; or that the Service is free of viruses or other
harmful components. You assume full responsibility and risk of loss resulting
from your downloading and/or use of files, information, content or other
material obtained from the Service.

## Limitation of Liability

You understand and agree that we will not be liable to you or any third party
for any loss of profits, use, goodwill, or data, or for any incidental,
indirect, special, consequential or exemplary damages, however arising, that
result from

- your use or inability to use the Service;
- any modification, price change, suspension or discontinuance of the Service;
- the Service generally or the software or systems that make the Service
  available;
- any other matter relating to the Service.

Our liability is limited whether or not we have been informed of the possibility
of such damages, and even if a remedy set forth in this Agreement is found to
have failed of its essential purpose. We will have no liability for any failure
or delay due to matters beyond our reasonable control.

## Release and Indemnification

You agree to indemnify us, defend us, and hold us harmless from and against any
and all claims, liabilities, and expenses, including attorneys’ fees, arising
out of your use of the Service, including but not limited to your violation of
this Agreement.

## Personal and Non-Commercial Use Limitation

This Service is for your personal and non-commercial use. You may not modify,
copy, distribute, transmit, display, perform, reproduce, publish, license,
create derivative works from, transfer, or sell any information, software,
products or services obtained from the Service.

## Your Data in the Service

This Service does not store any data that you create within the Service.

## About these Terms

We may modify these terms at any time, or add additional terms that apply to the
Service. We encourage you to read the terms regularly. We will post
notifications of changes to the terms on this page.

We reserve the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue,
temporarily or permanently, the Service (or any part of it) with or without
notice.
